The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Cats have supersonic hearing
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Cats walk on their toes.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Не удалось получить факт.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Female felines are \superfecund
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
